

   GAPDoc  --- A GAP 4 package for preparing documentation of GAP programs

                        Frank Lübeck
                       Max Neunhöffer
            (Lehrstuhl D für Mathematik, RWTH Aachen)              

This package provides:

-  Utilities to *use* the documentation of other packages which is written
   in GAPDoc format. If you don't want to write your own (package) 
   documentation, read on after "INSTALLATION" below.

-  The description of a markup language for GAP documentation (which is
   defined using the XML standard).

-  Three example documents using this language: The GAPDoc documentation
   itself, a short example which demonstrates all constructs defined  in
   the GAPDoc language, and a very short example explained in the
   introduction of the main documentation.

-  A mechanism for distributing  documentation among several files,
   including source code files.

-  GAP programs (written by the first named author) which produce from 
   documentation written in the GAPDoc language several document formats:
      * text format with color markup for onscreen browsing.
      * LaTeX format and from this PDF- and DVI-versions with hyperlinks.
      * HTML (4.01 strict) format for reading with a Web-browser.

For further information see:
   http://www.math.rwth-aachen.de/~Frank.Luebeck/GAPDoc/




INSTALLATION

Just unpack one of the archives in the "pkg" subdirectory of your GAP 
installation. The archive is available in several formats:

   gapdoc-XXX.zoo     (use the "unzoo" or "unzoo.exe" from the GAP homepage)
   gapdoc-XXX.tar.gz  (GNU tar archive, gzip'ed)
   gapdoc-XXX.tar.bz2 (GNU tar archive, bzip2'ed)
   gapdoc-XXX-win.zip (with DOS/Windows style line breaks in text files)

Unpacking generates a subdirectory "gapdoc". 

[no longer necessary from GAP 4.4 on:]
To tell GAP about this package add the following line to the file "ALLPKG"
in the "pkg" directory.

GAPDoc         # meta package for preparing GAP (package) documentation

That's it! (Maybe you want to read the help section "?SetHelpViewer" 
in the GAP reference manual.)


Installation *outside the GAP main directory*: When you don't have access to
the directory of your main GAP installation you can also install the package
by unpacking inside a directory "MYGAPDIR/pkg". (Don't forget to call "gap"
with the '-l ";MYGAPDIR"' option.) The only drawback with this installation
is that in the HTML version of the package documentation the links to the
main GAP manuals don't work. You can correct this by recompiling the 
HTML version of the documentation: Say "cd gapdoc; gap makedoc.g". (You need
latex, pdflatex, bibtex, makeidx on your system.)

For questions, suggestions, ... write to

   Frank.Luebeck@Math.RWTH-Aachen.De


Frank Lübeck


